Design Doc: Provider Contexts (#2311)
frequency-chain/frequency: designdocs/provider_contexts.md

Reviewer: This appears to get rid of Provider info (ie, `ProviderRegistryEntry` completely, replaced by application-level info. (Though I suppose, a ProviderId being an MsaId, Providers could still register `dsnp.profile` data?)

I think it's important that Provider-level information be discoverable by the user as well as Application-level.

Also, perhaps out of scope, but this seems like an opportune moment to expand the information associated with a Provider or Application, perhaps a link to off-chain info _à la_ `dsnp.profile` or a DNS-like record?

Author: Fixed. See other threads.

Author: Hmm... I'll have to think on this. It does feel like a future version of governance has a separate committee to handle this.

Reviewer: I do mention in my doc, that this kind of brings up the issue of whether we should "take the plunge" on at least a partial ENS implementation, which would handle the governance and ownership aspects of names/namespaces across all pallets/contracts.

# Provider Contexts Design Doc

## Context and Scope

> In Frequency, a Provider has been representative of both an Application and a Company.

Reviewer 2: "On Frequency a Provider may either represent an application or a company.

Author: ```suggestion
On Frequency, a Provider may either represent an application or a company.
```

In this document, the design will shift the representation of a Provider to be able to be a Company with one or more Applications.
It also enables social wallet providers, custodial and non-custodial, to provide safe application information to their users.

This is an expansion of the [Registered Provider](https://github.com/frequency-chain/frequency/blob/main/designdocs/provider_registration.md) concepts.

Reference Document: [SIWF Specification](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/)

### Why Is This Needed?

#### Concept of an Application Separate from a Provider

While most companies have a single major product, companies already want to take advantage of Frequency's universal data to provide many different applications to serve different needs.
While each application could be a separate provider, this causes two issues: The sharing of capacity and the user permissions.

> To have multiple providers requires separate Capacity staking.

Author: ```suggestion
Multiple providers require separate Capacity staking.
```

> As these applications would be from the same company, it is more reasonable to say that they should share Capacity.

Author: ```suggestion
As these applications would be from the same company, it is reasonable to say that they should share Capacity.
```

Instead of building a Capacity sharing system, it is more reasonable to merely be the same Provider and provide a system of application identification.

User permissions are primarily write-based at this time, however it is critical that users understand the delegation and their data is shared at a company level, no matter the chain representation of such.
To align with the data security model of company-to-user in the world today, permissions, and thus Provider-level delegations continue to reflect the reality best.

Finally, this structure does not prevent the setup of a 1:1 relationship between Application and Provider.
If a company wishes, they can create more than one Provider for the purposes of separation.
This may be desirable if there is a subsidiary company or other complex structures.

#### User Trust in Application Presentation

Users need to know what application they are logging into and trust that the displayed information is not a phishing attack.

> Users have a reasonable expectation that the chain and wallet provides a level of protection against phishing attacks from Providers and Applications.

Author: ```suggestion
Users have a reasonable expectation that the chain and wallet provide a level of protection against phishing attacks from Providers and Applications.
```

#### Easy Wallet Integration of Data

Wallets displaying login request information need to be able to easily obtain and verify the information they want to show the user.

## Proposal

Frequency should provide a safeguarded system of setting and updating Provider and Provider Application Contexts for wallets to display to users.

- [Storage and Structure of the Data](#data)
- [Mainnet Approval Flow](#governance)
- [Example of Wallet Usage via SIWF](#siwf)
- [Provider Dashboard Steps](#dashboard)

### **Storage and Structure of the Data** <a id='data'></a>

Currently, the `ProviderRegistryEntry` has only a `name` property, and no way to update said name.

Applications have two different pieces of default and (potentially) internationalized data:
- name
- logo/image

Limits
1. Provide a space to internationalize up to 150 localizations (Windows and macOS each have < 150).

> 2. Image should be `base64` encoded `png` that is `250x100` (support for future).

Author: Might have been broken as I switched (and failed here) to bytes over base64. Will fix.

> 2. Image should be `base64` encoded `png` that is `250x100` (support for future).

Author: ```suggestion
2. Image MUST BE encoded (`png`)[https://www.w3.org/TR/png-3/] that is `250x100` (support for future sizes and light/dark should be considered).
```

```

#### Open Questions
- Is this a set or edit pattern for the applications?
- Should adding/updating applications be a separate call?
- Should adding/updating a translation be a separate call?

#### Implementation Suggestion

To limit the amount of unapproved bytes intended to be interpreted as images on chain, an option would be to merely submit the hashes of images for approval.
This hash would then be allowlisted for that provider.
Once approved, that provider could submit the image to chain.
In the governance process, a link to the image would need to be submitted.

### **Example of Wallet Usage via SIWF** <a id='siwf'></a>

SIWF [Signed Request Payload](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/DataStructures/All.html) can expand the optional `applicationContext` value with a new optional `id` field that is the text of the `ApplicationIdentifier` on chain.
This would allow a smooth transition between `applicationContext.url` and `applicationContext.id` with both being optional.

The Wallet would then:
1. Verify the SIWF Signed Request.
2. Lookup the Provider via the `publicKey` in the SIWF Signed Request.
3. If any, fetch the Application Identifier from Frequency.

> 4. Display the information from the ApplicationRegistryEntry (or default Provider one) to the user to help them know who they are authorizing.

Reviewer 3: Can we better specify what is meant by the "default Provider one"?

Author: ```suggestion
4. Display the information from the `ApplicationRegistryEntry` (or the Provider Registry Entry `ProviderToRegistryEntry` if there is no application context identifier) to the user to help them know who they are authorizing.
```

> 5. User is happy to continue with the login process.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Allow the user to continue the login process.
```

### **Provider Dashboard Steps** <a id='dashboard'></a>

> Provider Dashboard needs be able to:

Author: ```suggestion
Provider Dashboard needs to be able:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: needs to be able

Author: Fixed

- Create a provider without any application context other than the default provider context
- Update the default provider context, logos, and translations

> - Add new Application Contexts with a unique to that provider id, logos, and translations

Reviewer 2: a unique what?

Author: ```suggestion
- Add new Application Contexts with a identifier (unique to that provider), logos, and translations
```

- Remove an existing Application Context
- Update an Application Contexts with new logos, and translations

## Non-goals

- Implementation of verified credentials for applications (Aka FooBar is approved by <Consumer Org>)
- Providing for independent body to perform verification

## Benefits and Risk

### Benefit: User protection and Application diversity

> Users will have a larger trust when they are logging into an application that the application is represented honestly, even with the continuous risk of trusting any new application with user data.

Reviewer 2: replace a larger trust with greater confidence

Author: ```suggestion
Users will have a greater confidence when they are logging into an application that the application is represented honestly, even with the continuous risk of trusting any new application with user data.
```

### Risk: Initial structure of only one Frequency Council member approving changes in an application

Tricking a single member is much simpler than a more detailed vetting process; however, at this stage, the number of providers is small.

This process should be re-evaluated as the number of Providers grows.

### Risk: Logo Images on Chain

This provides a direct way to place image content on chain, intended to be interpreted as image content.
While this must still pass through the governance step to be used by others, there is always a risk of harmful images being proposed.
This risk is mitigated by:

> - A registered provider must be taking the action

Reviewer 3: This is not clear from the sequence diagram, at least for the initial provider creation flow; it looks like all application data (including image bytes) would be recorded on-chain as part of the provider proposal.

Wouldn't the mitigation be submitting the image hashes rather than the images, as discussed in the "Implementation Suggestion" section?

Author: Applied some notes to highlight this.

# Provider Contexts Design Doc

## Context and Scope

On Frequency, a Provider may either represent an application or a company.
This document will outline the changes that will allow a Provider to represent a company with one or multiple applications.
It also enables social wallet providers, custodial and non-custodial, to provide safe application information to their users.

This is an expansion of the [Registered Provider](https://github.com/frequency-chain/frequency/blob/main/designdocs/provider_registration.md) concepts.

Reference Document: [SIWF Specification](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/)

### Why Is This Needed?

#### Concept of an Application Separate from a Provider

Many companies have a single major product, but some companies have multiple applications that serve different needs.
While each application could be a separate provider, this causes two issues: The sharing of capacity and the user permissions.

Having separate providers would require a single company to have separate Capacity staking for each application.

> As each these applications are still part of the same company, it is reasonable to say that those applications should share Capacity.

Author: ```suggestion
As each these applications are part of the same company, it is reasonable to say that those applications should share Capacity.
```

> Multiple providers require separate Capacity staking.
> As these applications would be from the same company, it is reasonable to say that they should share Capacity.
> Instead of building a Capacity sharing system, it is more reasonable to merely be the same Provider and provide a system of application identification.

Author: ```suggestion
```suggestion
Having separate providers would require a single company to have separate Capacity staking for each application.
As each these applications are still part of the same company, it is reasonable to say that those applications should share Capacity.
Instead of building a Capacity sharing system which has different trade-offs, it is reasonable for those applications to use the same Provider and provide a system of application identification that is separate from provider identification for these cases..
```
```

> Instead of building a Capacity sharing system which has different trade-offs, it is reasonable for those applications to use the same Provider and provide a system of application identification that is separate from provider identification for these cases..

Author: ```suggestion
```

### **Storage and Structure of the Data** <a id='data'></a>

Currently, the `ProviderRegistryEntry` has only a `name` property, and no way to update said name.

Applications have two different pieces of default and (potentially) internationalized data:
- name
- logo/image

Limits
1. Provide a space to internationalize up to 150 localizations (Windows and macOS each have < 150).
2. Image MUST BE encoded (`png`)[https://www.w3.org/TR/png-3/] that is `250x100` (support for future sizes and light/dark should be considered).

The data structure must support both of these and internationalization.

Proposed are the following changes:

1. `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct be renamed `ApplicationRegistryEntry`
2. `ApplicationRegistryEntry` have the following properties:
    ```rust
    pub struct ApplicationRegistryEntry<T, U>
    where
        T: Get<u32>,
        U: Get<u32>,
    {
        pub default_name: BoundedVec<u8, T>,
        pub localized_names: BTreeMap<Vec<u8>, BoundedVec<u8, T>>,
        pub default_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BoundedVec<u8, U>,
        pub localized_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BTreeMap<Vec<u8>, BoundedVec<u8, U>>,
    }
    ```

> 3. The `ProviderToRegistryEntry` be updated to use `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry`
>     ```rust
>     #[pallet::storage]
> 	pub type ProviderToRegistryEntry<T: Config> = StorageMap<
> 		_,
> 		Twox64Concat,
> 		ProviderId,
> 		ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry<T::MaxProviderNameSize, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,

Author: @JoeCap08055 This was a typo. It should ALSO be a `ApplicationRegistryEntry` (or an alias'd version of it)

```suggestion
3. The `ProviderToRegistryEntry` be updated to use `ApplicationRegistryEntry` so that the Provider has a "default" `ApplicationRegistryEntry`.
    ```rust
    #[pallet::storage]
	pub type ProviderToRegistryEntry<T: Config> = StorageMap<
		_,
		Twox64Concat,
		ProviderId,
		ApplicationRegistryEntry<T::MaxProviderNameSize, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
```

		OptionQuery,
	>;
    ```
4. New `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` storage be initialized:
    ```rust
    // Alias for clarity
    type ApplicationIdentifier<T: Config> = BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>

    #[pallet::storage]
	pub type ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry<T: Config> = StorageDoubleMap<
		_,
		Twox64Concat,
		ProviderId,
		Twox64Concat,
		ApplicationIdentifier<T>,
		ApplicationRegistryEntry<T::MaxProviderNameSize, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
		OptionQuery,
	>;

> 	```

Reviewer: This looks confusing to me. Can a `StorageMap` reference another StorageMap? Seems like there's some naming mixups.

Also, I realize that `ApplicationIdentifier` is not in the critical path anywhere, but should we keep identifiers normalized (ie, numeric/integer)?

> 	```

Reviewer: I appreciate the reuse of the `ApplicationRegistryEntry` structure, but I think they will end up diverging (either over time, or before this document is accepted...). `ProviderRegistryEntry` may end up containing more information regarding the Provider as a legal entity (similar to a DNS record), while `ApplicationRegistryEntry` would not necessarily evolve in such a way, being more or less a marketing distinction drawn by the Provider.

ex:
Provider `Meta` could/should reference information about the real-world ownership + "trustworthiness" of said entity.
Applications `Meta.Facebook`, `Meta.Instagram`, and `Meta.Threads`, being simply different product offerings of the owning entity, need have nothing other than name+icon (possible other descriptive fields, but entirely at the discretion of the Provider to describe).

Author: I think it is reasonable to at least alias or even duplicate the `ApplicationRegistryEntry` to a separate `ProviderRegistryEntry`. For clarity if nothing else.

I would sat that your namespacing is what `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` does: `<ProviderId>.<ApplicationId>`

That said, I'm not sure the trustworthiness can remain at the Provider level. For your example, it would be important that `Meta.Threads` has the validated DNS: `threads.net` and that it not apply to other Meta applications.

I am trying (and perhaps this is part of the issue here) to avoid needing to have every Provider also complete the Application data. Given that I expect <50% need both. Perhaps a better way to handle this is flipping the naming around. Rename `ApplicationRegistryEntry` to `ProviderRegistryEntry`. Then an `ApplicationId` can "represent" themselves with a different `ProviderRegistryEntry` and it is a bit more clear that Application level is an override of the default for the Provider level.

Reviewer: If we anticipate that an Application may require a good deal of the same meta-info as a Provider for purposes of trustworthiness, then I think it's reasonable to clone/alias the info types for now.

# Provider Contexts Design Doc

## Context and Scope

On Frequency, a Provider may either represent an application or a company.
This document will outline the changes that will allow a Provider to represent a company with one or multiple applications.
It also enables social wallet providers, custodial and non-custodial, to provide safe application information to their users.

This is an expansion of the [Registered Provider](https://github.com/frequency-chain/frequency/blob/main/designdocs/provider_registration.md) concepts.

Reference Document: [SIWF Specification](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/)

### Why Is This Needed?

#### Concept of an Application Separate from a Provider

Many companies have a single major product, but some companies have multiple applications that serve different needs.
While each application could be a separate provider, this causes two issues: The sharing of capacity and the user permissions.

> ```suggestion

Author: ```suggestion
```

- [Storage and Structure of the Data](#data)
- [Mainnet Approval Flow](#governance)
- [Example of Wallet Usage via SIWF](#siwf)
- [Provider Dashboard Steps](#dashboard)

### **Storage and Structure of the Data** <a id='data'></a>

Currently, the `ProviderRegistryEntry` has only a `name` property, and no way to update said name.

Applications have two different pieces of default and (potentially) internationalized data:
- name
- logo/image

Limits
1. Provide a space to internationalize up to 150 localizations (Windows and macOS each have < 150).
2. Image MUST BE encoded (`png`)[https://www.w3.org/TR/png-3/] that is `250x100` (support for future sizes and light/dark should be considered).

The data structure must support both of these and internationalization.

Proposed are the following changes:

1. `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct be renamed `ApplicationRegistryEntry`
2. `ApplicationRegistryEntry` have the following properties:
    ```rust
    pub struct ApplicationRegistryEntry<T, U>
    where
        T: Get<u32>,
        U: Get<u32>,
    {
        pub default_name: BoundedVec<u8, T>,

>         pub localized_names: BTreeMap<Vec<u8>, BoundedVec<u8, T>>,

Author: Yeah. I think that was the idea around the BTreeMap, but I didn't put any details in there.

This would allow a smooth transition between `applicationContext.url` and `applicationContext.id` with both being optional.

The Wallet would then:
1. Verify the SIWF Signed Request.
2. Lookup the Provider via the `publicKey` in the SIWF Signed Request.
3. If any, fetch the Application Identifier from Frequency.
4. Display the information from the `ApplicationRegistryEntry` (or the Provider Registry Entry `ProviderToRegistryEntry` if there is no application context identifier) to the user to help them know who they are authorizing.
5. Allow the user to continue the login process.

### **Provider Dashboard Steps** <a id='dashboard'></a>

Provider Dashboard needs to be able to:

- Create a provider without any application context other than the default provider context
- Update the default provider context, logos, and translations
- Add new Application Contexts with a identifier (unique to that provider), logos, and translations
- Remove an existing Application Context
- Update an Application Contexts with new logos, and translations

> ## Non-goals

Author: Since Applications are still under a Provider, the capacity sharing is the default (and only) setup out of the box.

This document will outline the changes that will allow a Provider to represent a company with one or multiple applications.
It also enables social wallet providers, custodial and non-custodial, to provide safe application information to their users.

This is an expansion of the [Registered Provider](https://github.com/frequency-chain/frequency/blob/main/designdocs/provider_registration.md) concepts.

Reference Document: [SIWF Specification](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/)

### Why Is This Needed?

#### Concept of an Application Separate from a Provider

Many companies have a single major product, but some companies have multiple applications that serve different needs.
While each application could be a separate provider, this causes two issues: The sharing of capacity and the user permissions.

Having separate providers would require a single company to have separate Capacity staking for each application.
As each these applications are part of the same company, those applications should share Capacity as a single legal entity.

Separate providers per application would NOT align with the data security model of user-to-company that exists in the world today.

> Provider-level delegations are better than introducing application-level delegations.

Reviewer 4: Can you please help me understand why Provider-level delegations are better than application-level delegations?

Author: ```suggestion
For example, imagine if Alice is delegating to an application, Bar. Bar application is owned by the Foo Company which also owns and controls Baz. The Foo Company is able to collect all data shared with both the Bar and the Baz. A delegation to just Bar or just Baz doesn't limit the information sharing between those Applications because the data agreement is with Foo Company.
Additionally, to limit the impact on the network, the Bar and Baz Applications are able to share capacity and perform batching together.
This leads to the conclusion that Provider-level delegations are better than introducing new Application-level delegations.
```

Author: @enddynayn how does that work?

Reviewer 4: Perfect! Thanks!

#### Open Questions

- Is this a set or edit pattern for the applications?
- Should adding/updating applications be a separate call?
- Should adding/updating a translation be a separate call?

#### Implementation Suggestion

To limit the amount of unapproved bytes intended to be interpreted as images on chain, an option would be to merely submit the hashes of images for approval.
This hash would then be allowlisted for that provider.
Once approved, that provider could submit the image to chain.
In the governance process, a link to the image would need to be submitted.

### **Example of Wallet Usage via SIWF** <a id='siwf'></a>

SIWF [Signed Request Payload](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/DataStructures/All.html) can expand the optional `applicationContext` value with a new optional `id` field that is the text of the `ApplicationIdentifier` on chain.
This would allow a smooth transition between `applicationContext.url` and `applicationContext.id` with both being optional.

The Wallet would then:

1. Verify the SIWF Signed Request.
2. Lookup the Provider via the `publicKey` in the SIWF Signed Request.
3. If any, fetch the Application Identifier from Frequency.

> 4. Display the information from the `ApplicationRegistryEntry` (or the Provider Registry Entry `ProviderToRegistryEntry` if there is no application context identifier) to the user to help them know who they are authorizing.

Reviewer 5: Thinking through this it would make sense for user be aware to the suite of applications they maybe granting delegation to, reminding me of how Disney used ToS of their app against a case incident in their park, but that would be a ux nightmare to show all apps to users

Also users might find it spooky that they are on an app saying "My family friendly app" but they now see "My adult app" asking for same permissions

# Provider Contexts Design Doc

## Context and Scope

On Frequency, a Provider may either represent an application or a company.
This document will outline the changes that will allow a Provider to represent a company with one or multiple applications.
It also enables social wallet providers, custodial and non-custodial, to provide safe application information to their users.

This is an expansion of the [Registered Provider](https://github.com/frequency-chain/frequency/blob/main/designdocs/provider_registration.md) concepts.

Reference Document: [SIWF Specification](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/)

### Why Is This Needed?

#### Concept of an Application Separate from a Provider

Many companies have a single major product, but some companies have multiple applications that serve different needs.
While each application could be a separate provider, this causes two issues: The sharing of capacity and the user permissions.

Having separate providers would require a single company to have separate Capacity staking for each application.

> As each these applications are part of the same company, those applications should share Capacity as a single legal entity.

Reviewer 4: As each "of" these...

The data structure must support both of these and internationalization.

Proposed are the following changes:

1. Update `ProviderRegistryEntry`.

    Each registry entry supports:
    - A default name and logo.
    - Localized names and logos (up to 150 locales).
    - PNG logo support (250x100, up to 128 KiB).
    - BCP 47-compliant language codes (e.g., en-US, fr-FR).
2. Updated `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct have the following properties:

    ```rust
        pub struct ProviderRegistryEntry<T::Config> {
            pub default_name: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>,
            pub localized_names: BTreeMap<Vec<T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>>,
            pub default_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
            pub localized_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BTreeMap<Vec<T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>>,
        }
    ```

3. New `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` storage be initialized:

    ```rust
    // Alias for clarity
    type ApplicationIdentifier<T: Config> = BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>

> 

Reviewer 5: @wilwade do we need a special application identifiers? These are per provider basis so we can just use incremental number 0-Nth app? Or is there a utility tied to it

Author: I was thinking just incremental ids. Names could change (Twitter -> 𝕏).

The application name doesn't have to be unique from a chain perspective, but I cannot see to many reasons for duplicates... Or well if you are trying out different branding you might create a second app context with the new logo and then you can roll it out slower.

3. Localization keys should follow BCP 47 format like en-US, fr-FR.

The data structure must support both of these and internationalization.

Proposed are the following changes:

1. Update `ProviderRegistryEntry`.

    Each registry entry supports:
    - A default name and logo.
    - Localized names and logos (up to 150 locales).
    - PNG logo support (250x100, up to 128 KiB).
    - BCP 47-compliant language codes (e.g., en-US, fr-FR).
2. Updated `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct have the following properties:

    ```rust
        pub struct ProviderRegistryEntry<T::Config> {
            pub default_name: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>,
            pub localized_names: BTreeMap<Vec<T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>>,
            pub default_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
            pub localized_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BTreeMap<Vec<T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>>,
        }
    ```

3. New `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` storage be initialized:

    ```rust
    // Alias for clarity

>     type ApplicationIdentifier<T: Config> = BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>

Reviewer 5: We can duly do both? A metric worth collecting, total apps and give 0..N per provider. 

Not sure if there is any utility for providers to know their first app is some rth app on frequency

    >;
    ```

4. `MaxProviderNameSize` be increased to `256`.
5. `MaxProviderLogo250X100Size` be created and the limit set to `131_072` (128 KiB).
6. Introduce hash-based logo approval mechanism:
    Logos are not embedded during proposal submission. Instead, a blake2_256 hash of the logo image is included in the proposal.
    Governance must explicitly approve these logo hashes as part of the provider registration process.

    The approved hashes are recorded in a dedicated storage map:

    ```rust
            pub ApprovedLogoHashes: StorageMap<
                _,
                Blake2_128Concat,
                [u8; 32], // blake2_256 hash of the logo
                (),
                OptionQuery
            >;
    ```

    The `propose_to_be_provider` extrinsic will insert or update entries in this map.

### **Changes and additions in extrinsics** <a id='extrinsics'></a>

1. The `propose_to_be_provider` extrinsic will now accept an optional list of hashes for images/logos to be approved by governance.

    ```rust
        #[pallet::call_index(0)]
        pub fn propose_to_be_provider(
            origin: OriginFor<T>,
            provider_name: Vec<u8>,

>             logo_hashes: Vec<[u8; 32]>, // blake2_256 hashes of the logos

Reviewer 5: Question: do we also take a list of localized names to be approved by goverance? or create a typed payload like `ProviderRegisterEntry` but with hashes instead of image bytes?

```

#### Open Questions

- Is this a set or edit pattern for the applications?
- Should adding/updating applications be a separate call?
- Should adding/updating a translation be a separate call?

#### Implementation Suggestion

To limit the amount of unapproved bytes intended to be interpreted as images on chain, an option would be to merely submit the hashes of images for approval.
This hash would then be allowlisted for that provider.
Once approved, that provider could submit the image to chain.
In the governance process, a link to the image would need to be submitted.

### **Example of Wallet Usage via SIWF** <a id='siwf'></a>

SIWF [Signed Request Payload](https://projectlibertylabs.github.io/siwf/v2/docs/DataStructures/All.html) can expand the optional `applicationContext` value with a new optional `id` field that is the text of the `ApplicationIndex` on chain.
This would allow a smooth transition between `applicationContext.url` and `applicationContext.id` with both being optional.

The Wallet would then:

1. Verify the SIWF Signed Request.
2. Lookup the Provider via the `publicKey` in the SIWF Signed Request.
3. If any, fetch the `ApplicationIndex` from Frequency.

> 4. If present, fetch the `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` for that (ProviderId, ApplicationId) pair. Otherwise, fetch the default `ProviderToRegistryEntry` for the ProviderId

Reviewer 5: Do we just keep provider side registry to contain just the name and empty for others and instead create a `default` application with id:0 when a provider is registered?

 that way there is atleast one application is   for providers and mutations can be limited to applications root and keep `ProviderToRegistry` immutable

Author: I do like the idea of an "application 0" being the default. `ProviderToRegistry` could be more minimal. hmm... I'm open to that solution. Aka all Providers have at least one application. Makes the data storage simpler for sure.

Reviewer 5: using a hash table `ApprovedLogos` makes it easy now, since `ProviderRegitry` would not contain raw bytes of logos but hashes and a second call to logo tables can resolve hash to image for users, so I believe we dont need a application 0 if fallback is `ProviderRegistry`

- [Mainnet Approval Flow](#governance)
- [Example of Wallet Usage via SIWF](#siwf)
- [Provider Dashboard Steps](#dashboard)

### **Storage and Structure of the Data** <a id='data'></a>

Currently, the `ProviderRegistryEntry` has only a `name` property, and no way to update said name.

Applications have two different pieces of default and (potentially) internationalized data:

- name
- logo/image

Limits:

1. Provide a space to internationalize up to 150 localizations (Windows and macOS each have < 150).
2. Image MUST BE encoded (`png`)[https://www.w3.org/TR/png-3/] that is `250x100` (support for future sizes and light/dark should be considered).
3. Localization keys should follow BCP 47 format like en-US, fr-FR.

The data structure must support both of these and internationalization.

Proposed are the following changes:

1. Update `ProviderRegistryEntry`.

    Each registry entry supports:
    - A default name and logo.
    - Localized names and logos (up to 150 locales).
    - PNG logo support (250x100, up to 128 KiB).
    - BCP 47-compliant language codes (e.g., en-US, fr-FR).
2. Updated `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct have the following properties:

    ```rust

>         pub struct ProviderRegistryEntry<T::Config> {

Reviewer 5: Did we consider setting `url` but I guess that does not necessarily mean ownership of brand and logo things

>         pub struct ProviderRegistryEntry<T::Config> {

Reviewer 5: Was the support for 30 locales discussed somewhere? Not sure if this number was introduced by me

>         pub struct ProviderRegistryEntry<T::Config> {

Reviewer 5: @wilwade do we need to shard with provider id, would just a hash table for logo/vs bytes would suffice? since ProviderRegistry would have the hash at time of provider/app registration. But if there is reason we would want to do ProviderId, Hash, Logo type doublemap?

            pub localized_names: BTreeMap<Vec<T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>>,
            pub default_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
            pub localized_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BTreeMap<Vec<T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>>,
        }
    ```

3. New `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` storage be initialized:

    ```rust
    // Alias for clarity
    type ApplicationIdentifier<T: Config> = BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>

    #[pallet::storage]
    pub type ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry<T: Config> = StorageDoubleMap<
        _,
        Twox64Concat,
        ProviderId,
        Twox64Concat,
        ApplicationIdentifier<T>,
        ProviderRegistryEntry<T>,
        OptionQuery,
    >;
    ```

4. `MaxProviderNameSize` be increased to `256`.
5. `MaxProviderLogo250X100Size` be created and the limit set to `131_072` (128 KiB).
6. Introduce hash-based logo approval mechanism:
    Logos are not embedded during proposal submission. Instead, a blake2_256 hash of the logo image is included in the proposal.

>     Governance must explicitly approve these logo hashes as part of the provider registration process.

Author: I would think if we didn't store on-chain, then it would be an IPFS CID.

                [u8; 32], // blake2_256 hash of the logo
                (),
                OptionQuery
            >;
    ```

    The `propose_to_be_provider` extrinsic will insert or update entries in this map.

### **Changes and additions in extrinsics** <a id='extrinsics'></a>

1. The `propose_to_be_provider` extrinsic will now accept an optional list of hashes for images/logos to be approved by governance.

    ```rust
        // Define a common payload type for provider registration
        #[derive(Encode, Decode, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, RuntimeDebug)]
        pub struct ProviderRegistrationPayload {
            /// Default name for provider or application.
            pub name: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>,

            /// A list of pre-approved logo image hashes (blake2_256).
            pub logo_hashes: BoundedVec<[u8; 32], T::MaxApprovedLogoCount>,

            /// Localized translations of the name, keyed by BCP 47 language code.
            pub translations: BoundedBTreeMap<
                BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, 
                BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>, 
                T::MaxTranslations,
            >,

>         }

Reviewer 5: Proposed payload to register provider/application, this is minimal to get a bulk approved and update later

### **Storage and Structure of the Data** <a id='data'></a>

Currently, the `ProviderRegistryEntry` has only a `name` property, and no way to update said name.

Applications have two different pieces of default and (potentially) internationalized data:

- name
- logo/image

Limits:

1. Provide a space to internationalize up to 150 localizations (Windows and macOS each have < 150).
2. Image MUST BE encoded (`png`)[https://www.w3.org/TR/png-3/] that is `250x100` (support for future sizes and light/dark should be considered).
3. Localization keys should follow BCP 47 format like en-US, fr-FR.

The data structure must support both of these and internationalization.

Proposed are the following changes:

1. Update `ProviderRegistryEntry`.

    Each registry entry supports:
    - A default name and logo (hash of the logo image).
    - Localized names and logos (up to 150 locales).
    - PNG logo support (250x100, up to 128 KiB). Note that the logo is not embedded in the proposal but rather a hash of the logo image.
    - BCP 47-compliant language codes (e.g., en-US, fr-FR).
2. Updated `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct have the following properties:

    ```rust

>     type LogoHash = [u8; 32]; // blake2_256 hash of the logo

Author: What if LogoHash was instead the CID? Stay with me here, as I'm not sure this works:

1. LogoHash is the CID. This way when submitted to the chain for approval, there is a simple way for the approval process to check the image.
2. (Not sure if this works) Submission of the image to be added to `ApprovedLogos` would need to check that the image matches the given CID. (I think this would require making some CID assumptions or documenting the defaults?)

Reviewer 5: This is doable and we already have some basic CID validation in `messages` for IPFS, my only question here is that is it ok to?

1. Provider may pin a logo and get CID
2. Proposes application with CID as logo hash
3. Upon approval submits a logo with cid but it might be a different file than originally pinned to bypass some governance restrictions 

If we get a CID is it possible to have some offchain worker that creates an offchain index and pull the image from CID and compute a hash of actual image for verification but i guess that might be an overkill

Author: As long as we are able to validate the CID on chain, then the file must be the same. As the CID has a sha2-256 hash "inside" of it. Ok not quite inside of it and this is where the question sits. Since it isn't just the bytes being hashed: https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/content-addressing/#cids-are-not-file-hashes

Reviewer 5: Re imagined LogoHash -> LogoCID,  atleast on the messages side we don't do a full CIDv1 validation, here we can recompute on file upload ( not sure if that would be possible) .

Following same rules around CIDv1 as in our message design.

    }
    ```

3. New `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` storage be initialized:

    ```rust
    // Alias for clarity
    pub type ApplicationIndex = u16;

    #[pallet::storage]
    pub type ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry<T: Config> = StorageDoubleMap<
        _,
        Twox64Concat,
        ProviderId,
        Twox64Concat,
        ApplicationIndex,
        ProviderRegistryEntry<T>,
        OptionQuery,
    >;
    ```

4. `MaxProviderNameSize` be increased to `256`.
5. `MaxProviderLogo250X100Size` be created and the limit set to `131_072` (128 KiB).
6. Introduce hash-based logo approval mechanism:
    Logos are not embedded during proposal submission. Instead, a blake2_256 hash of the logo image is included in the proposal.
    Governance must explicitly approve these logo hashes as part of the provider registration process.

    The approved hashes are recorded in a dedicated storage map:

    ```rust
        #[pallet::storage]
        #[pallet::getter(fn approved_logo_hashes)]
        /// Approved logo hashes for providers.
        /// This map stores the blake2_256 hash of the logo as the key and an empty tuple as the value.

>         pub ApprovedLogoHashes: StorageMap<

Author: I don't think we need the `ApprovedLogoHashes` storage do we? Instead the updating of the `ApprovedLogos` requires the path for the lookup in the `ProviderRegistryEntry` right?

Reviewer 5: Agreed, its easier to have it entered in ApprovedLogos and set incoming logos directly against a preset hash

### **Runtime RPC Changes** <a id='rpc'></a>

1. Introduce a new RPC method "get_provider_application_context" to fetch the application context for a given provider and application index.

    ```rust
    // Return a constructed ApplicationContext struct
    // This struct will contain the default name, localized names, default logo, and localized logos.
    #[derive(Encode, Decode, Clone, PartialEq, Eq, Debug)]
    pub struct ApplicationContext<T:Config> {
        pub default_name: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>,
        pub localized_names: BTreeMap<BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderNameSize>>,
        pub default_logo_250_100_png: BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
        pub localized_logo_250_100_png: BTreeMap<BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxLanguageCodeSize>, BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>>,
    }

    // The rpc should fetch the data from `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` and construct the ApplicationContext with logos from `ApprovedLogos`.
    #[rpc]
    pub fn get_provider_application_context(
        provider_id: ProviderId,

>         application_index: ApplicationIndex,

Author: As this could get large , I wonder if we should have a `locale` or locale version as well. That way the output could be simplified and doesn't need to have potentially 150 different logos pulled just to get the one needed.

Reviewer 5: Yep added an optional locale for such case for both RPCs

    ) -> Option<ApplicationContext<T>>;
    ```

> 2. Optionally, introduce "get_provider" RPC method to include the new fields for localized names and logos and return a provider registry entry.

Author: I like the idea of one that pulls the info for the `application` and `locale` and one that just pulls all the data.

            LogoCID,
            BoundedVec<u8, T::MaxProviderLogo250X100Size>,
            OptionQuery
        >;

    ```

### **Changes and additions in extrinsics** <a id='extrinsics'></a>

1. The `propose_to_be_provider` extrinsic will now accept an optional list of hashes for images/logos to be approved by governance. The provider payload will include the `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct with the default name, localized names, and default logo hash.

    ```rust

        #[pallet::call_index(0)]
        pub fn propose_to_be_provider(
            origin: OriginFor<T>,
            payload: ProviderRegistryEntry<T>,
        ) -> DispatchResultWithPostInfo {
            // Implementation details...
        }
    ```

2. `propose_to_be_provider` to will insert hashes into the `ApprovedLogos` storage map.
3. Introduce a new extrinsic `propose_to_add_application` which work in similar way to `propose_to_be_provider` but will be used for adding or updating application contexts. It will accept a `ProviderRegistryEntry` struct with the application name, localized names, and logo hashes.

    ```rust
        #[pallet::call_index(1)]
        pub fn propose_to_add_application(

>             origin: OriginFor<T>,

Reviewer 5: @wilwade should we separate add and update as separate extrinsics, assuming we can handle both with an optional application index 

On similar lines do we enable updating provider data via governance in same fashion?

Author: Hmm....

1. I think we can just make them set functions. Simplifies the setup.
2. Re-Provider Data. This makes me wonder again about an `Application 0` default instead of having Provider Data and Application data. Is there any other way we could unify these? Perhaps a `propose_to_set_provider_application` that takes an optional application id and if no application id it sets the provider level? Not sure if that makes it more confusing over having two extrinsics or not.

Author: We can see how that works, but we do want to be able to update the provider information as well so not sure it gets us far unless we just "don't" have provider information and only have application information.

Reviewer 5: That's true, it's better if we can just follow same model on both applications and provider side for issuing updates that way it's more nuanced even with some extra code.

I will capture that in this document

            // It will also handle the `ApprovedLogoHashes` storage map.
        }
    ```

    Note:
    - The same extrinsic should be able to used to proposing new image/logo hashes when an existing application context needs to be updated.
4. `propose_to_add_application` will insert or update the `ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry` with the current (numeric) `ApplicationIndex` and `ProviderRegistryEntry`.

    ```rust
        // Example of how the entry might look like
        let application_entry = ProviderRegistryEntry {
            default_name: application_name,
            localized_names: BTreeMap::new(), // Initially empty, can be updated later
            default_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BoundedVec::default(), // Initially empty, can be updated later
            localized_logo_250_100_png_bytes: BTreeMap::new(), // Initially empty, can be updated later
        };

        ProviderToApplicationRegistryEntry::<T>::insert(provider_id, application_identifier, application_entry);
    ```

5. `propose_to_add_application` will also insert the logo hashes into the `ApprovedLogoHashes` storage map.

> 6. Introduce a new extrinsic to `update_name` for updating an existing application context (post goveranance registration) provided with new name  `ProviderRegistryEntry` with the `ApplicationIndex`.

Reviewer 5: For application updates post governance, we introduce 3 extrinsics to update `logo` and `localized logos` , for name and local updates one has to go via `governance` like before
